As mentioned before we will use a Mongo DB database and specifically Mongoose which will help us to
manage the connection between the backend and the database.
Therefore we first have to install mongoose in our project and then we'll see where we have to implement
it in our code to install mongoose.
We simply use npm install dash dash save mongoose.
This will take a few seconds and after that we can use Mongoose to be able to use it though we of course
have to import it to our project.
The question is Where do we have to import it.
Well the core idea is that our general application doesn't make a lot of sense without the database.
In the end because all our data.
No matter if it's related to the user or to the places will be stored in the database and therefore
we somehow will interact with this data.
This means the right place to implement our connection to the database is here.
Our app J is file so let's first import mongoose.
Now with our well-known import syntax up here we require mongoose.
Now we can use mongoose.
The question is Where do we use it here.
In our code.
Well down here where we start up our back and server because as I said the logic should be as follows
We first want to establish the connection to the database.
If this connection is successful then we want to start our back and server in case the connection to
the database was not successful.
Well we don't need the server because we will for an error instead.
The good thing is that the connection to the database thanks to Mongoose comes with an integrated feature
to do so because we simply now use our Mongoose constant here and refer to our connect method connect
returns a promise as the connection to the server is an asynchronous task and with that.
This means that we can also make use of our then and our catch method right here which will allow us
to create exactly the logic.
I was just talking about before we dive into connect right here.
Connect requires specific credentials as an argument to well connect our back into the Mongol TB database.
We'd have to look at that in a few seconds.
So let's first focus onto then and catch.
Because if the connection was successful here well then we simply start our server.
So we simply use a normal error function syntax right here and take our code and paste it right here.
So that's the first case.
If our connection was successful we start our back and server in case it was not successful we'll simply
throw an error right here and here we could console log the error.
So that's the start of logic.
What is missing of course is here our connect method and you required argument to get this missing information.
We have to google for Mongo D.B. Atlas and down here you can find one would you be Atlas to click onto
it and go to sign in up here.
You can simply log in with your username and your password and then here and now in a brand new project.
Now we had a look at Mongol TB Atlas in more detail in the refresh module.
Therefore I'll focus on three core settings required to establish te connection to our database.
The first thing we have to do is we have to make sure that we can access that database from our current
machine.
Therefore we go to security and network access and add our current IP to these so-called IP whitelist
if you click at IP address right here and now at current IP address you see your current IP address
to your SD wide list entry and press confirm.
This will take a few seconds and after that you get the first step.
You can access TB from your current machine then statues change to active.
Therefore step 1 is done.
Now we also need to create a user which uses the specific network access we just created.
For that we go to database access and you see we have some existing users here but we will create a
new one by clicking.
Add new user.
Now you have to enter a user name.
In my case I select menu and a password which show you here which will be maybe a cattle mind want to
free.
Not the most secure password but totally sufficient for all purpose here.
Make sure to select read and drive to any database as the user privileges.
And with that we can add this user now.
Again this will take a few seconds.
The user was successfully created.
Now we can go back to our cluster and if we now select connect.
We can now choose a connection that put between our back end and the Mongol TB database.
We can connect with the Mongol shell or Mongol to be compass in our case.
Connect the application is the right choice.
Here we select node chests and free dot 0 or later in our case.
And here we can now finally find this so-called connection string.
The string is what we need to be able to access our database.
Important though we have to use our user name and password so the data we just added for user to make
sure that data access is configured correctly so we can copy this and now added right here in quotation
marks of course to our connect method.
Now very important we have to change the user name to menu in my case important.
Use your own username and your own password here.
By the time you're watching this by the way this data will not be longer valid so it doesn't make sense
to copy these.
The password was a cat.
Mind want you free.
And one other thing we can optionally change is right here.
Test test is the default name for the database that you create.
We will change this year and our project to places maybe with that we set up connection to our database.
Let's save this and let us now run NPM start to see if we have any errors.
No this works fine with that.
Step 1 was done.
The connection is established but of course we cannot add any data to the status base.
This means in the next lecture it's time to setup our places model.